CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to camouflage-dart

Thanks for helping improve the Dart implementation of Camouflage!

## Getting started
- Install a recent Dart/Flutter SDK (e.g., Dart 3.x / Flutter 3.x as appropriate).
- Ensure `dart` (and `flutter` if applicable) is on your PATH.
- Recommended: run `dart --version` or `flutter --version` to confirm setup.

## Development workflow
1. Fork the repo and create a branch from `main`.
   - Suggested: `feat/<scope>-<short-desc>` or `fix/<scope>-<short-desc>`
2. Implement your change with small, focused commits.
3. Before committing, run formatting and checks:
   - Format: `dart format .`
   - Lint: `dart analyze` (or `flutter analyze`)
   - Tests: `dart test` (or `flutter test`)
4. Update README/docs if behavior changes.
5. Open a Pull Request in the root repo targeting files under `dart-lib/` and fill out the PR template.

### PR title format (Conventional Commits)
Format your PR title as:

```
<type>(<scope>): <short description>
```

- type: one of `feat`, `fix`, `docs`, `style`, `refactor`, `test`, `chore`
- scope: the affected package/directory (e.g., `dart-lib`, `parser`, `cli`)
- short description: concise summary

Examples:
- feat(dart-lib): support JSON5 in ConfigLoader
- fix(dart-lib): avoid late initialization error in cache

GitKraken tip: GitKraken uses the first line of the commit message as the PR title. You can copy the PR title format directly when committing.

## Testing
- Add/adjust unit tests to cover new or changed behavior.
- Ensure tests pass locally (`dart test` or `flutter test`).
- Prefer hermetic tests; mock file system, network, and time when needed.

## Commit & PR guidelines
- Write clear commit messages and PR descriptions; link issues (e.g., "Fixes #123").
- Keep PRs focused and reasonably small.
- Include screenshots/logs/GIFs for visible or behavioral changes when helpful.

## Code of Conduct
This project adheres to the Contributor Covenant.
See `CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`. For sensitive reports, email contact@srctool.org.

## License
Contributions to `camouflage-dart` are made under the Apache 2.0 license found in `LICENSE`.

Thank you for contributing!

Commit message:

documentation: Update README, release process, automation, branching policies, PR templates (#2)
* chore: Update README documentation links and structure

Updated documentation badge links to point to the website instead of usage-specific docs. Expanded README documentation sections to include new website structure and clarify sources of doc files for both Kotlin and Dart libraries.

* chore: add release process, automation, and branching policies

Introduce detailed documentation for release workflows and versioning,
clarifying branching rules and automation triggers. Add GitHub actions
for automated releases, submodule synchronization, and enforcement of
merge policies. Update naming conventions, changelogs, and githooks.

* chore: Configure repository settings and update PR templates

Added GitHub settings to enforce Squash & Merge and automated branch deletion for kotlin-lib and dart-lib repositories. Updated PR templates to clarify commit title and body usage for squashed commits and emphasize targeting the `develop` branch for upstream changes.

* chore: Add PR templates for Kotlin and Dart libraries

Introduce standardized pull request templates for `kotlin-lib` and `dart-lib` to streamline contribution processes. The templates outline PR structure, testing guidelines, and Conventional Commit requirements for better consistency across repositories.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to camouflage-dart

Thanks for helping improve the Dart implementation of Camouflage!

## Getting started
- Install a recent Dart/Flutter SDK (e.g., Dart 3.x / Flutter 3.x as appropriate).
- Ensure `dart` (and `flutter` if applicable) is on your PATH.
- Recommended: run `dart --version` or `flutter --version` to confirm setup.

## Development workflow
1. Fork the repo and create a branch from `develop` (integration branch).
   - Suggested: `feat/<scope>-<short-desc>` or `fix/<scope>-<short-desc>`
2. Implement your change with small, focused commits.
3. Before committing, run formatting and checks:
   - Format: `dart format .`
   - Lint: `dart analyze` (or `flutter analyze`)
   - Tests: `dart test` (or `flutter test`)
4. Update README/docs if behavior changes.
5. Open a Pull Request in the root repo targeting `develop` (files under `dart-lib/`) and fill out the PR template.

### PR title format (Conventional Commits)
Format your PR title as:

```
<type>(<scope>): <short description>
```

- type: one of `feat`, `fix`, `docs`, `style`, `refactor`, `test`, `chore`
- scope: the affected package/directory (e.g., `dart-lib`, `parser`, `cli`)
- short description: concise summary

Examples:
- feat(dart-lib): support JSON5 in ConfigLoader
- fix(dart-lib): avoid late initialization error in cache

GitKraken tip: GitKraken uses the first line of the commit message as the PR title. You can copy the PR title format directly when committing.

## Merging policy
- Upstream repository: Squash and merge only on protected branches `main` and `develop`. Merge commits and rebase merges are not used on those branches.
- Forks: You may use any workflow/merge strategy in your own fork. When proposing changes upstream, the final merge into `main`/`develop` will be squashed.
- The final squashed commit title is taken from the PR title; the body is taken from the PR description.
- Keep the PR title in Conventional Commits format and ensure the description explains the "what" and "why`. Maintainers may edit the final message for clarity.

## Testing
- Add/adjust unit tests to cover new or changed behavior.
- Ensure tests pass locally (`dart test` or `flutter test`).
- Prefer hermetic tests; mock file system, network, and time when needed.

## Commit & PR guidelines
- Write clear commit messages and PR descriptions; link issues (e.g., "Fixes #123").
- Keep PRs focused and reasonably small.
- Include screenshots/logs/GIFs for visible or behavioral changes when helpful.

## Code of Conduct
This project adheres to the Contributor Covenant.
See `CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`. For sensitive reports, email contact@srctool.org.

## License
Contributions to `camouflage-dart` are made under the Apache 2.0 license found in `LICENSE`.

Thank you for contributing!
